作者bag (一點一點走)看板FuMouDiscuss標題Re: [爆卦] 一位醫生在行政院的所見時間Tue Mar 25 13:46:50 2014
    感謝 Taiwan Voice 協助翻譯成英文。

    我喜歡這個版本（雖然最後幾句話好像沒譯完），
    它用英文的邏輯重新組合過一些概念，
    能讓非中文世界的人比較容易瞭解。

    如有意願協助轉發我的記錄予外國朋友，請以這個版本為主。

    謝謝大家

    https://www.facebook.com/TaiwanVoice/posts/729195250457992



    "No conversation or interaction, only invasion and eviction."

    The eviction at the Executive Yuan through the eyes of Dr. Kuo, on
    the scene during the eviction at the Executive Yuan.

    Taiwan Voice 2014/03/24

    8 p.m.
    I was scrolling quickly through my Facebook newsfeed and came
    across: “Crowd moves on the Executive Yuan.” I grabbed my lab
    coat, climbed over the window with the crowd, and saw my first
    patient. It was a police officer suffering from a panic attack
    from guarding the door. I put on my lab coat and went to work.

    At the same time, an official medical team arrived at the
    Executive Yuan, getting organized and distributing the workload.
    Our country should be glad to know the assembled medical team was
    swift, efficient, organized, and not embroiled in the conflict.

    12:00 a.m.
    The group leader of the official medical team announced that we
    should retreat from the Executive Yuan immediately. I agreed with
    the decision but I chose to stay and wait and to continue looking
    over the protesters. I also believed that, though this space was
    no longer suitable for practicing medicine, that there would no
    doubt be some space for me to get set up in the courtyard. After
    all, I wanted to personally witness everything that was
    transpiring.

    Other than myself, there was a dietitian on the scene. As time
    went on, the small team of volunteers staying behind grew to 11
    people, two thirds of us doctors, the rest consisting of a lawyer
    who had been trained in emergency medical techniques, medical
    students and dietitians, EMTs, and some doctors who were unwilling
    to put on their lab coats (wearing lab coats signaled neutrality
    to the protests). There was also a medical student from Malaysia.
    I asked him why he came, and he told me that from the point of
    view of immigrants in Taiwan, Taiwan is the last hope of democracy
    [in Asia].

    “Doctor! Doctor!”
    Suddenly from up ahead, there was shouting for a doctor. It was
    for a girl from Hong Kong, emblazoned with badges and stickers
    supporting the protest. She had collapsed from exhaustion. I asked
    her “Are you from Hong Kong?” She nodded faintly. I refrained
    from talking to her about what has happened in Hong Kong [since
    the transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong to China]. I have heard
    so much about it over the years. I don’t get it. If someone
    cannot understand the problems with the Cross-Strait Services
    Trade Agreement, they should get themselves a ticket to Hong Kong
    and observe what has happened there.

    “Doctor! Someone is unconscious!”
    One person in the first group of protesters who entered Executive
    Yuan was forced to stay in a room with his friends with little
    ventilation. He was having a seizure. When I arrived there, things
    had been stuffed in his mouth preventing him from biting himself.
    Hmm… It seems the the knowledge spread by soap operas in Taiwan
    was quite influential. I removed the objects, checked his vital
    signs and level of consciousness. His vitals were good, and he
    could still still follow my instructions. The phone number from an
    EMT I had saved earlier served its function. I contacted him and
    called an ambulance for the patient. I think he had
    hyperventilation syndrome, but I was not really sure.

    “Doctor! Someone’ s eye has been injured!”
    I re-entered the Executive Yuan, met by a sea of members from the
    press crazily flashing pictures. I roared, “Respect the patient’
    s privacy.” The press responded, “You broke the law first!”

    This… this is the last hope of democracy in the eyes of Hong
    Kongers and Malaysians.

    I lost track of time when the police started to evict the
    protesters.

    “Doctor! Someone’s been beaten.”
    The patient had an injured leg, unable to move. Since training as
    a doctor in the military, this was the first time I had to put
    into practice the proper technique for moving an injured patient
    in the field. However, we were not in war. This was no war. This
    was just a student-led movement.

    Back at our tiny temporary medical station. Some doctors asked why
    we stayed here while others retreated. I said, “I did it for
    those students. They were persistent in their decision to stay,
    unwilling to leave amidst the tension. Our true mission was not in
    fact providing medical care, but rather to persuade them to leave.
    ” This movement may have caused some bloodshed, but it did not
    require that they also lay down their lives. There had to be
    someone to take them away from this place... and this was what we
    should do. We have to say what their fellow protesters could not
    say.

    A radio-controlled aircraft arrives.

    “Look!” My comrade pointed at a tiny RC aircraft flying in the
    air. It was a high-tech device from the Ministry of Police. Why
    did it make me think of Seediq Bale (Taiwanese film)? To the tiny
    aircraft so high in the sky, you may be able to make out our
    shape, but can you see what is in our hearts?

    3:00 a.m.
    Re-establishing Medical Station

    The eviction intensified in violence. The police began removing
    people from other places and pushed toward the plaza. The senior
    doctor decided that we should re-establish a medical station at
    the other side of plaza, considering the route of evacuation and
    avoiding the conflict. As more and more people joined the team, we
    regrouped and got prepared for the upcoming clash. Medical
    supplies were also provided from the medical team at the
    Legislative Yuan, with the replenished supplies and team members
    fortifying our base.

    The patients flooded in. There was not one second of rest.

    Right in front of the medical station, there was a girl, supported
    by a friend, weeping and asking police: “Why? Why has Taiwan
    become like this? Why do you make Taiwan like this?”

    The water cannons were activated

    4:30 a.m.
    The medical station descended upon by the police

    Most of the police were polite. A female police officer, actually,
    tried to maintain a clear passage for patients. What made an even
    bigger impression on me, however, was the shout from her
    colleague. He yelled his demands for the medical team to leave the
    area, adding; “If you don’t, you will cuffed and dragged out by
    your ankles.”

    I decided to echo the girl I had just seen crying, shouting on my
    way out, “Why has Taiwan become like this?”

    Off the plaza, I wandered around like a ghost. I met another group
    of doctors, following them to the rear gate of the Executive Yuan.
    At that time, there were a group of students lying on the ground
    to stop the water cannon from entering the area to be used. A
    police officer, looking like a superviser, kept stating that they
    would not activate the water cannon.
    I shouted to him, “Of course, you will not activate the cannon
    because you already have. it is out of water!” He actually tried
    to deny the fact that the police used water cannon. I lost it and
    just kept shouting “LIAR.” Finally, he shut up.

    5:00 a.m.
    Return to the plaza

    I wandered around as if out of my body, met up with another team
    and followed them. On the way back, the group of students were
    still lying on the ground, resolute in blocking the water cannon.
    I have so much gratitude and admiration for them. This image
    brought to mind the Tiananmen Square protests. However, there was
    no press to be seen, the students just persisted on in doing what
    they believed was right, even after the protesters at the plaza
    had been evicted. A small and simple perseverance.

    I re-entered the plaza, watching the last patients be cared for
    among the remaining puddles and ponds left from the water cannons.

    I thought of something a senior doctor had told me earlier in the
    day. He said, “when I was in the student movement, you were not
    even born yet. At that time, removing protesters involved a
    powerful water cannon. You’ve never seen anything like it.
    Believe me, it could actually cause internal bruising.”

    Now, do I even have the chance to tell my children “a water
    cannon is something that you’ve never seen.”

    After caring for the last patient, we left the plaza and the
    strange scene of it being packed with riot police

    This is our democracy and this is our freedom:

    No conversation or interaction, only invasion and eviction.


--
※ 發信站: 批踢踢實業坊(ptt.cc), 來自: 219.68.102.127
推 wagatokoro:謝謝 03/25 13:56

