作者ru04ul4 (拒絕)看板FuMouDiscuss標題[外媒] 台灣學生在行政院爆發衝突時間Tue Mar 25 10:42:10 2014
Clashes as Taiwan students storm government HQ


Taiwanese police have clashed with hundreds of students
who occupied government headquarters to protest at a trade deal with China.

台灣數百名學生佔領行政院以抗議與中國的貿易協定，與警方發生衝突。

Police used water cannon and dragged out students one by one,
clearing the building by dawn on Monday.

警方使用水槍並且將學生一個個托出來，星期一凌晨完成淨空。

Close to 60 people were arrested and more than 100 hurt, reports said.

報導指出近60人遭到逮捕，超過一百人受傷。

The protesters say the agreement with China would hurt Taiwan's economy
and leave it vulnerable to pressure from Beijing.

抗議者指出與中國的協議將會傷害台灣的經濟而且容易受到北京的壓力。

Another group of students and activists have occupied Taiwan's
parliament since early last week.

另外一群學生上週已經佔領了台灣的立法院。

The BBC's Cindy Sui in Taipei says the students wants more scrutiny
over all future dealings with China, including any trade agreements.

BBC的Cindy Sui在台北表示，學生希望與中國的交易有更多的審查，包含所有協定。

They also want the current deal - which would allow the two sides to invest
more freely in each other's services markets - to be scrapped.

他們也希望廢除目前使雙方的服務業市場更加自由的協定。

The governing Kuomintang party says it is determined to ratify the deal
with Beijing, which it says will boost the economy and create jobs.

執政的國民黨表示與北京的協議已經確定被批准，協議將會刺激經濟並且創造就業。

China formally regards Taiwan as a part of its territory,
despite the island governing itself for six decades.

中國官方認定台灣為他們領土的一部份，儘管本島政府已經自治超過六十年。




Trading partners

貿易夥伴

The protests began early last week after ruling party MPs said
a joint committee had completed its review of the pact,
which was signed in June 2013 but has not yet been ratified by MPs.

上週執政黨的立委宣佈聯合委員已經完成該項協定的審查之後開始了抗議活動，
該協議在2013年被簽署但尚未得到立委的批准。

Students broke into the legislature late on Tuesday and have since defied
police efforts to evict them, using barricades made of furniture.

學生在上週二晚間闖入議會，用家具作成路障對抗警方的驅趕。

On Friday thousands of people rallied to support the students, and the the
opposition Democratic Progressive Party has also backed them.

上週五數千人集結支持學生，反對黨民進黨也支持他們。

On Sunday, President Ma Ying-jeou said that the occupation of parliament
broke the law, adding: "I must say that [the pact] is completely for
the sake of Taiwan's economic future."

上週日總統馬英九表示佔領議會已經觸犯法律，
並補充：我必須說[這項協議]完全是為了台灣經濟的未來。

Late on Sunday, some protesters pushed past riot police to storm the
government headquarters, pulling down barbed wire and using ladders to access
second-floor offices.

周日晚間抗議者推開鎮暴警察衝進行政院，拉下鐵絲網用梯子進入二樓辦公室。

Violent clashes erupted as police moved to restore order.

警方企圖恢復秩序時爆發暴力衝突。

China is Taiwan's biggest trading partner and in recent years ties between
the two have improved.

中國是台灣最大的貿易夥伴，近幾年雙方的聯繫已經改善。

The two sides split at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949.

雙方分裂於中國1949年的內戰。

Earlier this year, however, they held their first direct
government-to-government talks. In the past, all talks
have gone via quasi-official organisations.

然而今年初舉辦了第一次政府對政府的直接對話。
在過去雙方所有的談判都是透過半官方組織。

They have also signed several trade and investment agreements
in recent years - but some fear greater economic integration
with China could threaten Taiwan.

近幾年雙方還簽訂了多項貿易和投資協議，
但是有一些人擔憂與中國的經濟整合可能會威脅台灣。

--
※ 發信站: 批踢踢實業坊(ptt.cc) 
◆ From: 114.34.33.133
→ theeht:這昨天不是PO過嘛 03/25 10:42
推 basicnet:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K1iY1afz8pk 03/25 10:43
→ flyawaymc:http://www.nownews.com/n/2014/03/25/1163267 反民主? 03/25 11:21

